## Introduction
This is continution project from the first project (titled as "AML_Project.ipynb"). Taking in feedback for the first project (please see "Project1_Feedback.md"), I will be cleaning this project by taking a unsupervised classification approach. I made this decision because there the data from APIs like ACLED are too sparse for certain countries (i.e. US and Ukraine). 

In this fictitious scenario, I am a US military data analyst working with data mining, data analytics, and machine learning to understand human tendencies for violence. My job is to train a machine learning algorithim to "categorize" countries based on their geopolitical volatility  using economic, weather, and geographical features through unsupervised learning. The motive behind this is the fact that US stakeholders and decision makers only have limited resources (i.e. vehicles, personnel, etc.) to spare in dynamic situations, so it is very difficult to respond "appropriately" to certain area. My training dataset will come from "traditional" conflict zones in the Middle East, North Africa, and Ukraine. I will be using a combined dataset taken from hetergenous sources (i.e. ACLED, World Bank, NASA). In addition, my employers have asked me to keep an eye on potential violent outbreak and intensity in the United States, a country that does not experience high levels of violence in comparison to "hot" countries and possibly find "hidden" trends. This is a the true test of the value of my models. 

Data Usage: Our actual Y values will be taken from the Armed Conflict Location and Event Database (ACLED) by totaling up the number of violent incidents in each country per year from 2000 to 2023. Our feature X values will be taken from the Worldbank and NASA Power. 

Machine Learning Pipeline: I will first start with preprocessing the data by create a merged "mega" dataframe from the different APIs and making sure that there is limited data loss during the merging phase. The next step will be using PCA and ICA for reducing our feature dimenstions and find our k-values for clustering through the elbow method and silheoutte score. Next I will use K-means, DBSCAN, and GMM clustering with PCA.  Finally, I will see how our algorithms classifies different countries throughout a span of 23 years. Please see "Final_Project.ipynb" for the full code and results. 

## Analysis 
After I merged my dataset (please see final_dataset.csv), the elbow method and silheoutte score revealed that my k-values should be 6 for our clusters. My K-means clusters mainly depended economic factors (i.e. GDP, Youth Unemployment) and moderate to high levels of politcal violence. My DBSCAN clusters depended on high numbers of demonstrations, fatalities, and misisng data (which the algorithm read it as consequence of a failed state). My GMM clusters mainly depended on economic factors and different types of violence.  



## Conclusion
I went with unsupervised classification approach for my final project because of the sparse dataset I was using for the conflict data. From my first project, I realized that several of my columns had NULL values from extraction. I was originally going to include more features from other APIs, but I ran to multiple problems with labelling (country name mismatch) and imbedded values which were inconsistent across the indicators (WHO GHO/Athena). I did not go with regression models because I did not think it will give any value (like we can see that unstable economic factors are going to lead to more demonstrations).  I tried to brute force supervised classification (i.e. logistic regression, Naive Bayes, Decision Trees, etc), however I just did not have enough conflict data to work with. Some valuable information I saw with my ML models was that our k-mean clustering did show a change in certain countries like Iraq during a historical event like the 2003 Iraq War where it changed from being a "fragile but low-violence" to  "Stable and developed country". This is a improper classification, but the likely reasoning behind this is that the change in "Political Violence" count and that it's split between economically poor and politically active countries. Another interesting point that the algorithms "saw" demonstrations (i.e. peaceful protests) and political violence( i.e. bombings/shellings) as the same, so the US and Turkey were grouped with Ukraine in the K-menas and GMM clusters. The best cluster for this project was the DBSCAN. It was better at consistency with the cluster groupings. For example, it was able to show the high volatility in South Africa, separate the US and Turkey (bigger GDPS but high demonstrations) and Ukraine (high levels of military violence) from the other groups, and show a hidden geographical grouping. By hidden geographical grouping, the Levant countries are share orange color, the African countries share a pink color, and countries toward the southern Arabian Pennisula share a yellow color. In the future, I will try to get actual geographical coordinates from ACLED and NASA POWER to see if I can uncover more patterns.       
